put up with him the way I do know me come sleep with me yes and he knows
that too at the bottom of his heart take that Mrs Maybrick that poisoned
her husband for what I wonder in love with some other man yes it was
found out on her wasnt she the downright villain to go and do a thing
like that of course some men can be dreadfully aggravating drive you mad
and always the worst word in the world what do they ask us to marry them
for if were so bad as all that comes to yes because they cant get on
without us white Arsenic she put in his tea off flypaper wasnt it I
wonder why they call it that if I asked him hed say its from the Greek
leave us as wise as we were before she must have been madly in love with
the other fellow to run the chance of being hanged O she didnt care if
that was her nature what could she do besides theyre not brutes enough
to go and hang a woman surely are they

theyre all so different Boylan talking about the shape of my foot he
noticed at once even before he was introduced when I was in the D B C
with Poldy laughing and trying to listen I was waggling my foot we both
ordered 2 teas and plain bread and butter I saw him looking with his
two old maids of sisters when I stood up and asked the girl where it was
what do I care with it dropping out of me and that black closed breeches
he made me buy takes you half an hour to let them down wetting all
myself always with some brandnew fad every other week such a long one I
did I forgot my suede gloves on the seat behind that I never got after
some robber of a woman and he wanted me to put it in the Irish times
lost in the ladies lavatory D B C Dame street finder return to Mrs
Marion Bloom and I saw his eyes on my feet going out through the turning
door he was looking when I looked back and I went there for tea 2 days
after in the hope but he wasnt now how did that excite him because I was
crossing them when we were in the other room first he meant the shoes
that are too tight to walk in my hand is nice like that if I only had a
ring with the stone for my month a nice aquamarine Ill stick him for one
and a gold bracelet I dont like my foot so much still I made him spend
once with my foot the night after Goodwins botchup of a concert so cold
and windy it was well we had that rum in the house to mull and the fire
wasnt black out when he asked to take off my stockings lying on the
hearthrug in Lombard street west and another time it was my muddy boots
hed like me to walk in all the horses dung I could find but of course
hes not natural like the rest of the world that I what did he say I
could give 9 points in 10 to Katty Lanner and beat her what does that
mean I asked him I forget what he said because the stoppress edition
just passed and the man with the curly hair in the Lucan dairy thats so
polite I think I saw his face before somewhere I noticed him when I was
tasting the butter so I took my time Bartell dArcy too that he used to
make fun of when he commenced kissing me on the choir stairs after I
sang Gounods _Ave Maria_ what are we waiting for O my heart kiss me
straight on the brow and part which is my brown part he was pretty hot
for all his tinny voice too my low notes he was always raving about if
you can believe him I liked the way he used his mouth singing then he
said wasnt it terrible to do that there in a place like that I dont see
anything so terrible about it Ill tell him about that some day not now
and surprise him ay and Ill take him there and show him the very place
too we did it so now there you are like it or lump it he thinks nothing
can happen without him knowing he hadnt an idea about my mother till we
were engaged otherwise hed never have got me so cheap as he did he was
lo times worse himself anyhow begging me to give him a tiny bit cut off
my drawers that was the evening coming along Kenilworth square he kissed
me in the eye of my glove and I had to take it off asking me questions
is it permitted to enquire the shape of my bedroom so I let him keep it
as if I forgot it to think of me when I saw him slip it into his pocket
of course hes mad on the subject of drawers thats plain to be seen
always skeezing at those brazenfaced things on the bicycles with their
skirts blowing up to their navels even when Milly and I were out with
him at the open air fete that one in the cream muslin standing right
against the sun so he could see every atom she had on when he saw me
from behind following in the rain I saw him before he saw me however
standing at the corner of the Harolds cross road with a new raincoat on
him with the muffler in the Zingari colours to show off his complexion
and the brown hat looking slyboots as usual what was he doing there
where hed no business they can go and get whatever they like from
anything at all with a skirt on it and were not to ask any questions but
they want to know where were you where are you going I could feel him
coming along skulking after me his eyes on my neck he had been keeping
away from the house he felt it was getting too warm for him so I
halfturned and stopped then he pestered me to say yes till I took off my
glove slowly watching him he said my openwork sleeves were too cold for
the rain anything for an excuse to put his hand anear me drawers drawers
the whole blessed time till I promised to give him the pair off my doll
to carry about in his waistcoat pocket _O Maria Santisima_ he did look
a big fool dreeping in the rain splendid set of teeth he had made me
hungry to look at them and beseeched of me to lift the orange petticoat
I had on with the sunray pleats that there was nobody he said hed kneel
down in the wet if I didnt so persevering he would too and ruin his new
raincoat you never know what freak theyd take alone with you theyre so
savage for it if anyone was passing so I lifted them a bit and touched
his trousers outside the way I used to Gardner after with my ring hand
to keep him from doing worse where it was too public I was dying to find
out was he circumcised he was shaking like a jelly all over they want
to do everything too quick take all the pleasure out of it and father
waiting all the time for his dinner he told me to say I left my purse in
the butchers and had to go back for it what a Deceiver then he wrote me
that letter with all those words in it how could he have the face to any
woman after his company manners making it so awkward after when we met
asking me have I offended you with my eyelids down of course he saw I
wasnt he had a few brains not like that other fool Henny Doyle he was
always breaking or tearing something in the charades I hate an unlucky
man and if I knew what it meant of course I had to say no for form sake
dont understand you I said and wasnt it natural so it is of course
it used to be written up with a picture of a womans on that wall in
Gibraltar with that word I couldnt find anywhere only for children
seeing it too young then writing every morning a letter sometimes twice
a day I liked the way he made love then he knew the way to take a woman
when he sent me the 8 big poppies because mine was the 8th then I wrote
the night he kissed my heart at Dolphins barn I couldnt describe it
simply it makes you feel like nothing on earth but he never knew how to
embrace well like Gardner I hope hell come on Monday as he said at the
same time four I hate people who come at all hours answer the door you
think its the vegetables then its somebody and you all undressed or
the door of the filthy sloppy kitchen blows open the day old frostyface
Goodwin called about the concert in Lombard street and I just after
dinner all flushed and tossed with boiling old stew dont look at me
professor I had to say Im a fright yes but he was a real old gent in his
way it was impossible to be more respectful nobody to say youre out you
have to peep out through the blind like the messengerboy today I thought
it was a putoff first him sending the port and the peaches first and I
was just beginning to yawn with nerves thinking he was trying to make a
fool of me when I knew his tattarrattat at the door he must have been
a bit late because it was l/4 after 3 when I saw the 2 Dedalus girls
coming from school I never know the time even that watch he gave me
never seems to go properly Id want to get it looked after when I threw
the penny to that lame sailor for England home and beauty when I was
whistling there is a charming girl I love and I hadnt even put on my
clean shift or powdered myself or a thing then this day week were to go
to Belfast just as well he has to go to Ennis his fathers anniversary
the 27th it wouldnt be pleasant if he did suppose our rooms at the hotel
were beside each other and any fooling went on in the new bed I couldnt
tell him to stop and not bother me with him in the next room or perhaps
some protestant clergyman with a cough knocking on the wall then hed
never believe the next day we didnt do something its all very well a
husband but you cant fool a lover after me telling him we never did
anything of course he didnt believe me no its better hes going where
he is besides something always happens with him the time going to the
Mallow concert at Maryborough ordering boiling soup for the two of
us then the bell rang out he walks down the platform with the soup
splashing about taking spoonfuls of it hadnt he the nerve and the waiter
after him making a holy show of us screeching and confusion for the
engine to start but he wouldnt pay till he finished it the two gentlemen
in the 3rd class carriage said he was quite right so he was too hes so
pigheaded sometimes when he gets a thing into his head a good job he was
able to open the carriage door with his knife or theyd have taken us on
to Cork I suppose that was done out of revenge on him O I love jaunting
in a train or a car with lovely soft cushions I wonder will he take
a 1st class for me he might want to do it in the train by tipping the
guard well O I suppose therell be the usual idiots of men gaping at
us with their eyes as stupid as ever they can possibly be that was an
exceptional man that common workman that left us alone in the carriage
that day going to Howth Id like to find out something about him l or 2
tunnels perhaps then you have to look out of the window all the nicer
then coming back suppose I never came back what would they say eloped
with him that gets you on on the stage the last concert I sang at where
its over a year ago when was it St Teresas hall Clarendon St little
chits of missies they have now singing Kathleen Kearney and her like
on account of father being in the army and my singing the absentminded
beggar and wearing a brooch for Lord Roberts when I had the map of it
all and Poldy not Irish enough was it him managed it this time I wouldnt
put it past him like he got me on to sing in the _Stabat Mater_ by going
around saying he was putting Lead Kindly Light to music I put him up to
that till the jesuits found out he was a freemason thumping the piano
lead Thou me on copied from some old opera yes and he was going about
with some of them Sinner Fein lately or whatever they call themselves
talking his usual trash and nonsense he says that little man he showed
me without the neck is very intelligent the coming man Griffiths is he
well he doesnt look it thats all I can say still it must have been him
he knew there was a boycott I hate the mention of their politics after
the war that Pretoria and Ladysmith and Bloemfontein where Gardner lieut
Stanley G 8th Bn 2nd East Lancs Rgt of enteric fever he was a lovely
fellow in khaki and just the right height over me Im sure he was brave
too he said I was lovely the evening we kissed goodbye at the canal lock
my Irish beauty he was pale with excitement about going away or wed be
seen from the road he couldnt stand properly and I so hot as I never
felt they could have made their peace in the beginning or old oom Paul
and the rest of the other old Krugers go and fight it out between them
instead of dragging on for years killing any finelooking men there were
with their fever if he was even decently shot it wouldnt have been so
bad I love to see a regiment pass in review the first time I saw the
Spanish cavalry at La Roque it was lovely after looking across the bay
from Algeciras all the lights of the rock like fireflies or those sham
battles on the 15 acres the Black Watch with their kilts in time at the
march past the 10th hussars the prince of Wales own or the lancers O the
lancers theyre grand or the Dublins that won Tugela his father made his
money over selling the horses for the cavalry well he could buy me a
nice present up in Belfast after what I gave him theyve lovely linen up
there or one of those nice kimono things I must buy a mothball like I
had before to keep in the drawer with them it would be exciting going
round with him shopping buying those things in a new city better leave
this ring behind want to keep turning and turning to get it over the
knuckle there or they might bell it round the town in their papers or
tell the police on me but theyd think were married O let them all go and
smother themselves for the fat lot I care he has plenty of money and hes
not a marrying man so somebody better get it out of him if I could find
out whether he likes me I looked a bit washy of course when I looked
close in the handglass powdering a mirror never gives you the expression
besides scrooching down on me like that all the time with his big
hipbones hes heavy too with his hairy chest for this heat always having
to lie down for them better for him put it into me from behind the way
Mrs Mastiansky told me her husband made her like the dogs do it and
stick out her tongue as far as ever she could and he so quiet and mild
with his tingating cither can you ever be up to men the way it takes
them lovely stuff in that blue suit he had on and stylish tie and socks
with the skyblue silk things on them hes certainly well off I know by
the cut his clothes have and his heavy watch but he was like a perfect
