out looking quite conscious what harm but he had the impudence to make
up to me one time well done to him mouth almighty and his boiled eyes of
all the big stupoes I ever met and thats called a solicitor only for
I hate having a long wrangle in bed or else if its not that its some
little bitch or other he got in with somewhere or picked up on the
sly if they only knew him as well as I do yes because the day before
yesterday he was scribbling something a letter when I came into the
front room to show him Dignams death in the paper as if something told
me and he covered it up with the blottingpaper pretending to be thinking
about business so very probably that was it to somebody who thinks
she has a softy in him because all men get a bit like that at his age
especially getting on to forty he is now so as to wheedle any money she
can out of him no fool like an old fool and then the usual kissing my
bottom was to hide it not that I care two straws now who he does it with
or knew before that way though Id like to find out so long as I dont
have the two of them under my nose all the time like that slut that Mary
we had in Ontario terrace padding out her false bottom to excite him bad
enough to get the smell of those painted women off him once or twice
I had a suspicion by getting him to come near me when I found the
long hair on his coat without that one when I went into the kitchen
pretending he was drinking water 1 woman is not enough for them it was
all his fault of course ruining servants then proposing that she could
eat at our table on Christmas day if you please O no thank you not in my
house stealing my potatoes and the oysters 2/6 per doz going out to see
her aunt if you please common robbery so it was but I was sure he had
something on with that one it takes me to find out a thing like that he
said you have no proof it was her proof O yes her aunt was very fond of
oysters but I told her what I thought of her suggesting me to go out to
be alone with her I wouldnt lower myself to spy on them the garters I
found in her room the Friday she was out that was enough for me a little
bit too much her face swelled up on her with temper when I gave her her
weeks notice I saw to that better do without them altogether do out the
rooms myself quicker only for the damn cooking and throwing out the dirt
I gave it to him anyhow either she or me leaves the house I couldnt even
touch him if I thought he was with a dirty barefaced liar and sloven
like that one denying it up to my face and singing about the place in
the W C too because she knew she was too well off yes because he couldnt
possibly do without it that long so he must do it somewhere and the last
time he came on my bottom when was it the night Boylan gave my hand a
great squeeze going along by the Tolka in my hand there steals another
I just pressed the back of his like that with my thumb to squeeze back
singing the young May moon shes beaming love because he has an idea
about him and me hes not such a fool he said Im dining out and going to
the Gaiety though Im not going to give him the satisfaction in any case
God knows hes a change in a way not to be always and ever wearing the
same old hat unless I paid some nicelooking boy to do it since I cant do
it myself a young boy would like me Id confuse him a little alone with
him if we were Id let him see my garters the new ones and make him turn
red looking at him seduce him I know what boys feel with that down
on their cheek doing that frigging drawing out the thing by the hour
question and answer would you do this that and the other with the
coalman yes with a bishop yes I would because I told him about some dean
or bishop was sitting beside me in the jews temples gardens when I was
knitting that woollen thing a stranger to Dublin what place was it and
so on about the monuments and he tired me out with statues encouraging
him making him worse than he is who is in your mind now tell me who are
you thinking of who is it tell me his name who tell me who the german
Emperor is it yes imagine Im him think of him can you feel him trying to
make a whore of me what he never will he ought to give it up now at this
age of his life simply ruination for any woman and no satisfaction in it
pretending to like it till he comes and then finish it off myself anyway
and it makes your lips pale anyhow its done now once and for all with
all the talk of the world about it people make its only the first time
after that its just the ordinary do it and think no more about it why
cant you kiss a man without going and marrying him first you sometimes
love to wildly when you feel that way so nice all over you you cant help
yourself I wish some man or other would take me sometime when hes there
and kiss me in his arms theres nothing like a kiss long and hot down to
your soul almost paralyses you then I hate that confession when I used
to go to Father Corrigan he touched me father and what harm if he did
where and I said on the canal bank like a fool but whereabouts on your
person my child on the leg behind high up was it yes rather high up was
it where you sit down yes O Lord couldnt he say bottom right out and
have done with it what has that got to do with it and did you whatever
way he put it I forget no father and I always think of the real father
what did he want to know for when I already confessed it to God he had
a nice fat hand the palm moist always I wouldnt mind feeling it neither
would he Id say by the bullneck in his horsecollar I wonder did he know
me in the box I could see his face he couldnt see mine of course hed
never turn or let on still his eyes were red when his father died theyre
lost for a woman of course must be terrible when a man cries let alone
them Id like to be embraced by one in his vestments and the smell of
incense off him like the pope besides theres no danger with a priest if
youre married hes too careful about himself then give something to H
H the pope for a penance I wonder was he satisfied with me one thing I
didnt like his slapping me behind going away so familiarly in the hall
though I laughed Im not a horse or an ass am I I suppose he was thinking
of his fathers I wonder is he awake thinking of me or dreaming am I in
it who gave him that flower he said he bought he smelt of some kind of
drink not whisky or stout or perhaps the sweety kind of paste they stick
their bills up with some liqueur Id like to sip those richlooking green
and yellow expensive drinks those stagedoor johnnies drink with the
opera hats I tasted once with my finger dipped out of that American that
had the squirrel talking stamps with father he had all he could do to
keep himself from falling asleep after the last time after we took the
port and potted meat it had a fine salty taste yes because I felt lovely
and tired myself and fell asleep as sound as a top the moment I popped
straight into bed till that thunder woke me up God be merciful to us
I thought the heavens were coming down about us to punish us when I
blessed myself and said a Hail Mary like those awful thunderbolts in
Gibraltar as if the world was coming to an end and then they come and
tell you theres no God what could you do if it was running and rushing
about nothing only make an act of contrition the candle I lit that
evening in Whitefriars street chapel for the month of May see it brought
its luck though hed scoff if he heard because he never goes to church
mass or meeting he says your soul you have no soul inside only grey
matter because he doesnt know what it is to have one yes when I lit the
lamp because he must have come 3 or 4 times with that tremendous big red
brute of a thing he has I thought the vein or whatever the dickens they
call it was going to burst though his nose is not so big after I took
off all my things with the blinds down after my hours dressing and
perfuming and combing it like iron or some kind of a thick crowbar
standing all the time he must have eaten oysters I think a few dozen he
was in great singing voice no I never in all my life felt anyone had
one the size of that to make you feel full up he must have eaten a whole
sheep after whats the idea making us like that with a big hole in the
middle of us or like a Stallion driving it up into you because thats all
they want out of you with that determined vicious look in his eye I had
to halfshut my eyes still he hasnt such a tremendous amount of spunk in
him when I made him pull out and do it on me considering how big it is
so much the better in case any of it wasnt washed out properly the last
time I let him finish it in me nice invention they made for women for
him to get all the pleasure but if someone gave them a touch of it
themselves theyd know what I went through with Milly nobody would
believe cutting her teeth too and Mina Purefoys husband give us a swing
out of your whiskers filling her up with a child or twins once a year
as regular as the clock always with a smell of children off her the one
they called budgers or something like a nigger with a shock of hair on
it Jesusjack the child is a black the last time I was there a squad of
them falling over one another and bawling you couldnt hear your ears
supposed to be healthy not satisfied till they have us swollen out like
elephants or I dont know what supposing I risked having another not off
him though still if he was married Im sure hed have a fine strong child
but I dont know Poldy has more spunk in him yes thatd be awfully jolly
I suppose it was meeting Josie Powell and the funeral and thinking about
me and Boylan set him off well he can think what he likes now if thatll
do him any good I know they were spooning a bit when I came on the scene
he was dancing and sitting out with her the night of Georgina Simpsons
housewarming and then he wanted to ram it down my neck it was on account
of not liking to see her a wallflower that was why we had the standup
row over politics he began it not me when he said about Our Lord being a
carpenter at last he made me cry of course a woman is so sensitive about
everything I was fuming with myself after for giving in only for I knew
he was gone on me and the first socialist he said He was he annoyed me
so much I couldnt put him into a temper still he knows a lot of mixedup
things especially about the body and the inside I often wanted to study
up that myself what we have inside us in that family physician I could
always hear his voice talking when the room was crowded and watch him
after that I pretended I had a coolness on with her over him because he
used to be a bit on the jealous side whenever he asked who are you going
to and I said over to Floey and he made me the present of Byron's poems
and the three pairs of gloves so that finished that I could quite easily
get him to make it up any time I know how Id even supposing he got in
with her again and was going out to see her somewhere Id know if he
refused to eat the onions I know plenty of ways ask him to tuck down the
collar of my blouse or touch him with my veil and gloves on going out I
kiss then would send them all spinning however alright well see then let
him go to her she of course would only be too delighted to pretend shes
mad in love with him that I wouldnt so much mind Id just go to her and
ask her do you love him and look her square in the eyes she couldnt fool
me but he might imagine he was and make a declaration to her with his
plabbery kind of a manner like he did to me though I had the devils own
job to get it out of him though I liked him for that it showed he could
hold in and wasnt to be got for the asking he was on the pop of asking
me too the night in the kitchen I was rolling the potato cake theres
something I want to say to you only for I put him off letting on I was
in a temper with my hands and arms full of pasty flour in any case I let
out too much the night before talking of dreams so I didnt want to let
him know more than was good for him she used to be always embracing me
Josie whenever he was there meaning him of course glauming me over and
when I said I washed up and down as far as possible asking me and did
you wash possible the women are always egging on to that putting it on
thick when hes there they know by his sly eye blinking a bit putting on
the indifferent when they come out with something the kind he is what
spoils him I dont wonder in the least because he was very handsome at
that time trying to look like Lord Byron I said I liked though he
was too beautiful for a man and he was a little before we got engaged
afterwards though she didnt like it so much the day I was in fits of
laughing with the giggles I couldnt stop about all my hairpins falling
out one after another with the mass of hair I had youre always in great
humour she said yes because it grigged her because she knew what it
meant because I used to tell her a good bit of what went on between us
not all but just enough to make her mouth water but that wasnt my fault
she didnt darken the door much after we were married I wonder what shes
got like now after living with that dotty husband of hers she had her
face beginning to look drawn and run down the last time I saw her she
must have been just after a row with him because I saw on the moment she
was edging to draw down a conversation about husbands and talk about him
to run him down what was it she told me O yes that sometimes he used to
go to bed with his muddy boots on when the maggot takes him just imagine
having to get into bed with a thing like that that might murder you
any moment what a man well its not the one way everyone goes mad Poldy
anyhow whatever he does always wipes his feet on the mat when he comes
in wet or shine and always blacks his own boots too and he always takes
off his hat when he comes up in the street like then and now hes going
about in his slippers to look for 10000 pounds for a postcard U p up
O sweetheart May wouldnt a thing like that simply bore you stiff to
extinction actually too stupid even to take his boots off now what
could you make of a man like that Id rather die 20 times over than marry
another of their sex of course hed never find another woman like me to
