retire.

"Oh, heavens," exclaimed Valentine, who was supporting the head of
Morrel on her shoulder, "do you not see how pale she is? Do you not see
how she suffers?"

Haydée answered with a heartrending expression, "Why should he
understand this, my sister? He is my master, and I am his slave; he has
the right to notice nothing."

The count shuddered at the tones of a voice which penetrated the inmost
recesses of his heart; his eyes met those of the young girl and he could
not bear their brilliancy. "Oh, heavens," exclaimed Monte Cristo, "can
my suspicions be correct? Haydée, would it please you not to leave me?"

"I am young," gently replied Haydée; "I love the life you have made so
sweet to me, and I should be sorry to die."

"You mean, then, that if I leave you, Haydée----"

"I should die; yes, my lord."

"Do you then love me?"

"Oh, Valentine, he asks if I love him. Valentine, tell him if you love
Maximilian."

The count felt his heart dilate and throb; he opened his arms, and
Haydée, uttering a cry, sprang into them.

"Oh, yes," she cried, "I do love you! I love you as one loves a father,
brother, husband! I love you as my life, for you are the best, the
noblest of created beings!"


"Let it be, then, as you wish, sweet angel; God has sustained me in my
struggle with my enemies, and has given me this reward; he will not let
me end my triumph in suffering; I wished to punish myself, but he has
pardoned me. Love me then, Haydée! Who knows? perhaps your love will
make me forget all that I do not wish to remember."

"What do you mean, my lord?"

"I mean that one word from you has enlightened me more than twenty years
of slow experience; I have but you in the world, Haydée; through you I
again take hold on life, through you I shall suffer, through you
rejoice."

"Do you hear him, Valentine?" exclaimed Haydée; "he says that through me
he will suffer--through _me_, who would yield my life for his."

The count withdrew for a moment. "Have I discovered the truth?" he said;
"but whether it be for recompense or punishment, I accept my fate. Come,
Haydée, come!" and throwing his arm around the young girl's waist, he
pressed the hand of Valentine, and disappeared.


An hour had nearly passed, during which Valentine, breathless and
motionless, watched steadfastly over Morrel. At length she felt his
heart beat, a faint breath played upon his lips, a slight shudder,
announcing the return of life, passed through the young man's frame. At
length his eyes opened, but they were at first fixed and expressionless;
then sight returned, and with it feeling and grief.

"Oh," he cried, in an accent of despair, "the count has deceived me; I
am yet living;" and extending his hand towards the table, he seized a
knife.

"Dearest," exclaimed Valentine, with her adorable smile, "awake, and
look at me!" Morrel uttered a loud exclamation, and frantic, doubtful,
dazzled, as though by a celestial vision, he fell upon his knees.

The next morning at daybreak, Valentine and Morrel were walking arm-in-
arm on the sea-shore, Valentine relating how Monte Cristo had appeared
in her room, explained everything, revealed the crime, and, finally, how
he had saved her life by enabling her to simulate death.

They had found the door of the grotto opened, and gone forth; on the
azure dome of heaven still glittered a few remaining stars. Morrel soon
perceived a man standing among the rocks, apparently awaiting a sign
from them to advance, and pointed him out to Valentine.

"Ah, it is Jacopo," she said, "the captain of the yacht;" and she
beckoned him towards them.

"Do you wish to speak to us?" asked Morrel.

"I have a letter to give you from the count."

"From the count!" murmured the two young people.

"Yes; read it."


Morrel opened the letter, and read:

"My Dear Maximilian,

"There is a felucca for you at anchor. Jacopo will carry you to Leghorn,
where Monsieur Noirtier awaits his granddaughter, whom he wishes to
bless before you lead her to the altar. All that is in this grotto, my
friend, my house in the Champs-Élysées, and my château at Tréport, are
the marriage gifts bestowed by Edmond Dantès upon the son of his old
master, Morrel. Mademoiselle de Villefort will share them with you; for
I entreat her to give to the poor the immense fortune reverting to her
from her father, now a madman, and her brother who died last September
with his mother. Tell the angel who will watch over your future destiny,
Morrel, to pray sometimes for a man, who, like Satan, thought himself
for an instant equal to God, but who now acknowledges with Christian
humility that God alone possesses supreme power and infinite wisdom.
Perhaps those prayers may soften the remorse he feels in his heart. As
for you, Morrel, this is the secret of my conduct towards you. There is
neither happiness nor misery in the world; there is only the comparison
of one state with another, nothing more. He who has felt the deepest
grief is best able to experience supreme happiness. We must have felt
what it is to die, Morrel, that we may appreciate the enjoyments of
living.

"Live, then, and be happy, beloved children of my heart, and never
forget that until the day when God shall deign to reveal the future to
man, all human wisdom is summed up in these two words,--'_Wait and
hope_.'--Your friend,

"Edmond Dantès, _Count of Monte Cristo_."


During the perusal of this letter, which informed Valentine for the
first time of the madness of her father and the death of her brother,
she became pale, a heavy sigh escaped from her bosom, and tears, not the
less painful because they were silent, ran down her cheeks; her
happiness cost her very dear.

Morrel looked around uneasily.

"But," he said, "the count's generosity is too overwhelming; Valentine
will be satisfied with my humble fortune. Where is the count, friend?
Lead me to him."

Jacopo pointed towards the horizon.

"What do you mean?" asked Valentine. "Where is the count?--where is
Haydée?"

"Look!" said Jacopo.

The eyes of both were fixed upon the spot indicated by the sailor, and
on the blue line separating the sky from the Mediterranean Sea, they
perceived a large white sail.

"Gone," said Morrel; "gone!--adieu, my friend--adieu, my father!"

"Gone," murmured Valentine; "adieu, my sweet Haydée--adieu, my sister!"

"Who can say whether we shall ever see them again?" said Morrel with
tearful eyes.

"Darling," replied Valentine, "has not the count just told us that all
human wisdom is summed up in two words:

"'_Wait and hope_ (Fac et spera)!'"



End of Project Gutenberg's The Count of Monte Cristo, by Alexandre
Dumas, père

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO ***

***** This file should be named 1184-0.txt or 1184-0.zip ***** This and
all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/1/1/8/1184/

Produced by Anonymous Project Gutenberg Volunteers, Dan Muller, and
David Widger

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will be
renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no one
owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation (and
you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without permission
and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules, set forth in the
General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to copying and
distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the
PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project Gutenberg is a
registered trademark, and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks,
unless you receive specific permission.  If you do not charge anything
for copies of this eBook, complying with the rules is very easy.  You
may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative
works, reports, performances and research.  They may be modified and
printed and given away--you may do practically ANYTHING with public
domain eBooks.  Redistribution is subject to the trademark license,
especially commercial redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU
DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
