waves o'er the waters dull.

_(Bloom half rises. His back trouserbutton snaps.)_

THE BUTTON: Bip!

_(Two sluts of the coombe dance rainily by, shawled, yelling flatly.)_

THE SLUTS:

     O, Leopold lost the pin of his drawers
     He didn't know what to do,
     To keep it up,
     To keep it up.

BLOOM: _(Coldly)_ You have broken the spell. The last straw. If there
were only ethereal where would you all be, postulants and novices? Shy
but willing like an ass pissing.

THE YEWS: _(Their silverfoil of leaves precipitating, their skinny arms
aging and swaying)_ Deciduously!

THE NYMPH: _(Her features hardening, gropes in the folds of her habit)_
Sacrilege! To attempt my virtue! _(A large moist stain appears on her
robe)_ Sully my innocence! You are not fit to touch the garment of a
pure woman. _(She clutches again in her robe)_ Wait. Satan, you'll sing
no more lovesongs. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. _(She draws a poniard and,
clad in the sheathmail of an elected knight of nine, strikes at his
loins)_ Nekum!

BLOOM: _(Starts up, seizes her hand)_ Hoy! Nebrakada! Cat o' nine lives!
Fair play, madam. No pruningknife. The fox and the grapes, is it? What
do you lack with your barbed wire? Crucifix not thick enough? _(He
clutches her veil)_ A holy abbot you want or Brophy, the lame gardener,
or the spoutless statue of the watercarrier, or good mother Alphonsus,
eh Reynard?

THE NYMPH: _(With a cry flees from him unveiled, her plaster cast
cracking, a cloud of stench escaping from the cracks)_ Poli...!

BLOOM: _(Calls after her)_ As if you didn't get it on the double
yourselves. No jerks and multiple mucosities all over you. I tried it.
Your strength our weakness. What's our studfee? What will you pay on
the nail? You fee mendancers on the Riviera, I read. _(The fleeing nymph
raises a keen)_ Eh? I have sixteen years of black slave labour behind
me. And would a jury give me five shillings alimony tomorrow, eh? Fool
someone else, not me. _(He sniffs)_ Rut. Onions. Stale. Sulphur. Grease.

_(The figure of Bella Cohen stands before him.)_

BELLA: You'll know me the next time.

BLOOM: _(Composed, regards her) Passee._ Mutton dressed as lamb. Long
in the tooth and superfluous hair. A raw onion the last thing at night
would benefit your complexion. And take some double chin drill. Your
eyes are as vapid as the glasseyes of your stuffed fox. They have the
dimensions of your other features, that's all. I'm not a triple screw
propeller.

BELLA: _(Contemptuously)_ You're not game, in fact. _(Her sowcunt
barks)_ Fbhracht!

BLOOM: _(Contemptuously)_ Clean your nailless middle finger first, your
bully's cold spunk is dripping from your cockscomb. Take a handful of
hay and wipe yourself.

BELLA: I know you, canvasser! Dead cod!

BLOOM: I saw him, kipkeeper! Pox and gleet vendor!

BELLA: _(Turns to the piano)_ Which of you was playing the dead march
from _Saul?_

ZOE: Me. Mind your cornflowers. _(She darts to the piano and bangs
chords on it with crossed arms)_ The cat's ramble through the slag.
_(She glances back)_ Eh? Who's making love to my sweeties? _(She darts
back to the table)_ What's yours is mine and what's mine is my own.

_(Kitty, disconcerted, coats her teeth with the silver paper. Bloom
approaches Zoe.)_

BLOOM: _(Gently)_ Give me back that potato, will you?

ZOE: Forfeits, a fine thing and a superfine thing.

BLOOM: _(With feeling)_ It is nothing, but still, a relic of poor mamma.

ZOE:

     Give a thing and take it back
     God'll ask you where is that
     You'll say you don't know
     God'll send you down below.

BLOOM: There is a memory attached to it. I should like to have it.

STEPHEN: To have or not to have that is the question.

ZOE: Here. _(She hauls up a reef of her slip, revealing her bare thigh,
and unrolls the potato from the top of her stocking)_ Those that hides
knows where to find.

BELLA: _(Frowns)_ Here. This isn't a musical peepshow. And don't you
smash that piano. Who's paying here?

_(She goes to the pianola. Stephen fumbles in his pocket and, taking out
a banknote by its corner, hands it to her.)_

STEPHEN: _(With exaggerated politeness)_ This silken purse I made out
of the sow's ear of the public. Madam, excuse me. If you allow me. _(He
indicates vaguely Lynch and Bloom)_ We are all in the same sweepstake,
Kinch and Lynch. _Dans ce bordel ou tenons nostre etat_.

LYNCH: _(Calls from the hearth)_ Dedalus! Give her your blessing for me.

STEPHEN: _(Hands Bella a coin)_ Gold. She has it.

BELLA: _(Looks at the money, then at Stephen, then at Zoe, Florry and
Kitty)_ Do you want three girls? It's ten shillings here.

STEPHEN: _(Delightedly)_ A hundred thousand apologies. _(He fumbles
again and takes out and hands her two crowns)_ Permit, _brevi manu_, my
sight is somewhat troubled.

_(Bella goes to the table to count the money while Stephen talks to
himself in monosyllables. Zoe bends over the table. Kitty leans over
Zoe's neck. Lynch gets up, rights his cap and, clasping Kitty's waist,
adds his head to the group.)_

FLORRY: _(Strives heavily to rise)_ Ow! My foot's asleep. _(She limps
over to the table. Bloom approaches.)_

BELLA, ZOE, KITTY, LYNCH, BLOOM: _(Chattering and squabbling)_ The
gentleman... ten shillings... paying for the three... allow me a
moment... this gentleman pays separate... who's touching it?... ow!
... mind who you're pinching... are you staying the night or a short
time?... who did?... you're a liar, excuse me... the gentleman paid
down like a gentleman... drink... it's long after eleven.

STEPHEN: _(At the pianola, making a gesture of abhorrence)_ No bottles!
What, eleven? A riddle!

ZOE: _(Lifting up her pettigown and folding a half sovereign into the
top of her stocking)_ Hard earned on the flat of my back.

LYNCH: _(Lifting Kitty from the table)_ Come!

KITTY: Wait. _(She clutches the two crowns)_

FLORRY: And me?

LYNCH: Hoopla! _(He lifts her, carries her and bumps her down on the
sofa.)_

STEPHEN:

     The fox crew, the cocks flew,
     The bells in heaven
     Were striking eleven.
     'Tis time for her poor soul
     To get out of heaven.

BLOOM: _(Quietly lays a half sovereign on the table between bella and
florry)_ So. Allow me. _(He takes up the poundnote)_ Three times ten.
We're square.

BELLA: _(Admiringly)_ You're such a slyboots, old cocky. I could kiss
you.

ZOE: _(Points)_ Him? Deep as a drawwell. _(Lynch bends Kitty back over
the sofa and kisses her. Bloom goes with the poundnote to Stephen.)_

BLOOM: This is yours.

STEPHEN: How is that? _Les distrait_ or absentminded beggar. _(He
fumbles again in his pocket and draws out a handful of coins. An object
fills.)_ That fell.

BLOOM: _(Stooping, picks up and hands a box of matches)_ This.

STEPHEN: Lucifer. Thanks.

BLOOM: _(Quietly)_ You had better hand over that cash to me to take care
of. Why pay more?

STEPHEN: _(Hands him all his coins)_ Be just before you are generous.

BLOOM: I will but is it wise? _(He counts)_ One, seven, eleven, and
five. Six. Eleven. I don't answer for what you may have lost.

STEPHEN: Why striking eleven? Proparoxyton. Moment before the next
Lessing says. Thirsty fox. _(He laughs loudly)_ Burying his grandmother.
Probably he killed her.

BLOOM: That is one pound six and eleven. One pound seven, say.

STEPHEN: Doesn't matter a rambling damn.

BLOOM: No, but...

